Welcome to the first course in the Data
Analytics for Business Specialization.
Straight away I'm going to let
you in on a little secret,
we won't actually be doing
any analytics in course one.
What's that you say?
I thought I was here to learn analytics,
is this some sort of bait and switch?
I promise you it's not.
It turns out that if you want to be a
great data analyst in a real organization,
there's a whole lot of other things you
need to understand to be successful.
In our experience most analytic
courses are great at covering methods.
But they don't necessary prepare you to
apply them as part of an analytic team in
the real world.
This is what we focus on in course one,
specifically we are going to spend most
of our time speaking to two big ideas.
The first idea is that there is an overall
process that describes how we think about
analytical problems.
And the path that information
takes from real world events
to actions in the marketplace.
The second idea is that there
are important elements that support
the analytic environment, namely people,
tools, and organizational structures.
We'll break these ideas out and
throw in a little skill-based
learning in four modules.
In the first module,
we'll introduce that process called
the information action value chain.
And we'll cover the first part
of that value chain in detail.
In the second module, we'll talk about
analytical technologies and the tool
sets that analysts and data workers use to
create and manage analytical environment.
In the third module,
we'll go deep into one step in our
process in one particular type of tool.
By learning how to extract data from
relational databases using code called
Structured Query Language or SQL,
I'll be honest, that one is my favorite.
In the fourth module, we'll focus on
the people, the organization, and
the policies that guide
analytics in real companies.
Our hope is that by giving you a solid
foundation in how analytics really work.
You'll be much more successful at
actually using those methods and
executing analytics to have a real
impact in your organization.
Surfing is as much a mental
exercise as it is a physical one.
You can be strong and flexible, but
if you can't see what's coming and
interpret it correctly, you'll never catch
a wave, and you might even get hurt.
When you learn how to surf you
spend a lot of time on the beach
watching how the ocean works.
You need to understand the break,
you need to have the right tools for
the right wave.
You need to know who else is out there,
how they might behave, and
what rules you need to follow
when surfing with others.
You also discover that while
riding the wave is the fun part,
most of the work is paddling out and
getting yourself in the right position,
to catch the wave in the first place.
Above all else, surfing is a sport that
requires you to operate in harmony with
your environment,
to reach your maximum potential.
We want you to learn how to
understand your environment and
how the practice of
analytics really works.
We want you to learn how to think
about analytical problems, and
know how to approach them before you ever
step foot into the water, so to speak.
So let's get started,
see you in module one.